Hello everyone and
welcome to the methods lecture.
So, in this lecture we're gonna be going briefly
over methods and how methods are essentially
functions built into objects.
So let's go ahead and jump over to a quick presentation.
Okay. So let's get a quick overview of methods.
So methods are essentially functions
that are built into objects.
At least that's the way I like to think about them.
And later on in the course, we're gonna learn
about how to create our own objects and methods
using something called Object Oriented Programming
or otherwise known as OOP and we'll use classes
in order to make that happen.
But for now, let's just focus on methods
on objects that we're already familiar with.
So methods will perform specific actions on the object
and can also take arguments, just like a function.
This lecture it's gonna serve as just a brief introduction
to methods and get you thinking about overall design methods
that we'll touch back upon when we reach OOP
or Object Oriented Programming in the course.
So you've already used methods throughout the course,
but now we're just actually formalising
what we're actually doing.
So methods are in the form of this syntax.
Where you have the object or the variable
that's referring to that object;
a dot and then the method name,
and then parenthesis an additional arguments.
Sometimes you pass an argument, sometimes you don't.
It depends on the method.
So you'll see later that we can think of these methods
as having an arguments called self that refers
to the object itself.
Don't worry if you don't understand that now
but just keep that in the back of your mind
and you'll see how that really comes into play
when we learn about Object Oriented Programming.
And now we're gonna jump over to the code.
But the main purpose of this lecture,
since you've already used methods,
is just to plant a seed where you're thinking
about methods and how they interact with objects.
Because when we learn about Object Oriented Programming,
then it's gonna click really well on
what Object Oriented Programming is and
how you're making your own methods and your own objects.
So let's go and jump to some quick code
in the Jupyter notebook.
Okay. So here's the notebook that's already laid out.
And we're gonna to through some
pretty quick examples and you've probably already
seen a lot of these before.
So methods.
Let's go ahead and see a quick example of methods on a list.
So I'm gonna create a simple list;
one, two, three, four, five,
and fortunately with IPython in the Jupyter notebook,
we can quickly see all the possible methods
using the tab key.
So I can hit L dot and then tab
and here a have a list of all the available methods
for a list.
So let's go ahead and try out a few of them.
Let's try out the one that we're already familiar with,
append.
And append allows us to add elements to the end of the list.
So I'm going to say append,
let's go ahead and add six to the end of that list.
And now if I check that list,
there I have one, two, three, four, five, six.
Okay. So again in order to grab that list of methods,
remember this only works with IPython Jupyter notebooks,
I click tab and I get the list and click append.
Or just hit enter and once it's highlighted,
and then if I want to know more about the specific method,
I can hold shift, tab, and then I get this little
docstring pop up, and I can click the plus sign
and it'll tell me what it does.
So from the docstring it says it appends object to end.
Okay. So let's go ahead and do another one.
We'll hit tab and let's go ahead and move down one
so we're at count.
So now what does count do?
Well let's go ahead and use the built in help.
So I can say shift tab to the docstring.
It's an L count.
Takes in a value and return an integer.
And it returns the number of occurrences of the value.
So counts.
Let's count how many times three appears in that list.
And you'll notice it appears just once.
Okay. So let's say you're using some sort of
other IDE or some other coding environment
that's not Jupyter or IPython based,
how could you get the help on these built in methods
or built in functions?
You can actually just use the help function.
So I can say help on that method.
And it outputs the docstring.
And hopefully that will help you.
So what I want you to do now is feel free
to play around with the rest of the methods for a list.
And later on in this section in your quiz,
it's going to involve using help and Google searching
for the different methods on all the types
of objects and data structures that we've learned about.
So the only thing I want you
to really get out of this lecture
is to know if I want to find a method on an object.
It's just a dot or a decimal point.
I click tab and I have the list of methods.
And then I can click shift tab
to get some more information on it.
Okay.
So that's it for methods.
It's just super basic.
I want you to just feel comfortable calling them
on the objects or data structures that you've made.
And keep in mind just the syntax here
and what it looks like.
Because when we go into Object Oriented Programming,
you're gonna feel the connexion with methods
and how you're actually building them out.
And a lot of times in other tutorials that I've seen,
that connexion is lost on beginners.
So keep in mind that you're calling a method
on your object or data structure
and then passing an arguments to it optionally.
Okay. So that's it and feel free
to read up on the Jupyter notebook
if you want some more details on it.
Okay. Great and I will see you in the next lecture.